Chemical reaction effect on peristaltic motion of micropolar fluid through a porous medium with heat absorption in the presence of magnetic field
An attempt is made to study the peristaltic motion of incompressible micropolar fluid through a porous medium in a two-dimensional symmetric channel. The effects of heat absorption and chemical reaction in the presence of magnetic field have been reported. This phenomenon is modulated mathematically by a system of partial differential equations which govern the motion of the fluid. The flow analysis has been developed for low Reynolds number and long wavelength case. The expressions of the stream function, velocity, microrotation velocity, temperature and concentration are obtained as functions of the physical parameters of the problem. The results have been discussed graphically to observe the effects of heat absorption, chemical reaction and magnetic field in the presence of micropolarity effects through a set of figures. It is found that both the linear velocity and microrotation velocity decrease with increasing values of the micropolar fluid material parameter (m). The effect of increasing the values of porosity parameter and magnetic parameter is to suppress microrotation velocity and enhance the linear velocity. It is also observed that an increase in the values of the coefficient of heat absorption parameter decreases the temperature field and increases the concentration field.
R. N. Barika and G. C. Dashb
chemical-reaction-effect-on-peristaltic-motion-of-micropolar-fluid-through-aporous-medium-with-heat-absorption-in-the-presence-of.pdf" title="Chemical reaction effect on peristaltic motion of micropolar fluid through aporous medium with heat absorption in the presence of magnetic field
chemical-reaction-effect-on-peristaltic-motion-of-micropolar-fluid-through-arnporous-medium-with-heat-absorption-in-the-presence-of-magnetic-field-13382
chemical-reaction-effect-on-peristaltic-motion-of-micropolar-fluid-through-aporous-medium-with-heat-absorption-in-the-presence-of
