Direct, derivative spectrophotometric determination of micro amounts of Palladium (II) by 5-bromo salicylaldehyde isonocotinoyl hydrazone (5-BrSAINH)
A simple and highly selective spectrophotometric method have been developed for the determination of trace amounts of Pd (II) using newly synthesized reagent 5-bromo salicylaldehyde isonocotinoyl hydrazone (5-BrSAINH) in aqueous DMF medium. Palladium (II) forms a brown colored soluble complex with 5-BrSAINH in the pH range 1.0-5.0. The Pd (II) – 5-BrSAINH complex shows maximum absorbance at 445nm in the pH range 2.5-3.0 where the reagent blank shows negligible absorbance. Hence analytical studies were carried out at 445nm and at pH 3.0.Beer’s law was obeyed in the range 1.06-10.64μgmL-1 of Pd (II).The molar absorptivity and sandell’s sensitivity for the colored solution were found to be 1.30 x 104 L.mol-1cm-1 and 0.81X10-2 μgcm-2, respectively.The brown colored complex has 1:1 Stoichiometry .The interference effect of various diverse ions have been studied .The stability constant of the complex was determined as 7.24X 106 by Job’s method. First and second order derivative spectrophotometric methods were developed which were found to be more sensitive than zero order method. The developed method have been employed for the determination of palladium (II) in hydrogenation catalyst samples, alloy steel samples and in water samples. The results were in good agreement with certified values.
M. Swetha, P. Raveendra Reddy and V. Krishna Reddy
direct-derivative-spectrophotometric-determination-of-micro-amounts-ofpalladium-ii-by-5bromo-salicylaldehyde-isonocotinoyl-hydrazo.pdf" title="Direct, derivative spectrophotometric determination of micro amounts ofPalladium (II) by 5-bromo salicylaldehyde isonocotinoyl hydrazone(5-BrSAINH)
direct-derivative-spectrophotometric-determination-of-micro-amounts-ofrnpalladium-ii-by-5bromo-salicylaldehyde-isonocotinoyl-hydrazonern5brsainh-14905
direct-derivative-spectrophotometric-determination-of-micro-amounts-ofpalladium-ii-by-5bromo-salicylaldehyde-isonocotinoyl-hydrazo
