Flood risk assessment of river Mada: A case study of Akwanga local government area of Nasarawa state, Nigeria
Flood is one of the malevolent effects on the environment which affects man adversely hence needs to be monitored and managed in order to avoid loss of lives and property. The assessment of flood risk in Akwanga Local Government Area of Nasarawa State was carried out using rainfall data and the perception of the floodplain dwellers. This study tests a central hypothesis that the flooding in the study area is dependent on the prevailing climatic element especially rainfall using Pearson product moment correlation coefficient. The rainfall variability and trend were analyzed using standard anomaly index and simple linear regression respectively. However, the study reveals that the possibility of flooding is to an extent influenced by the pattern of rainfall which shows a characteristic increase as the year progresses. About 250 questionnaires were administered to landowners in the selected settlements in the study area using systematic random sampling. The results of analysis showed, among other things, that the populations with regards to the settlement pattern are the most important causes of floods as well as heavy, prolonged rainfall which lead to river overflow, flooding. Nevertheless, they have little knowledge of the frequency of severe floods, and flood alleviation schemes. Most flood victims do not get compensation or relief during flood disaster. Finally, the study concludes that flood control in the region needs the cooperation of government, community efforts and an enlightenment programmes through environmental education and mass media
*Ogah A. T., Abiola K. A., Magaji J. I. and Ijeogu E.O. and Opaluwa O. D.
flood-risk-assessment-of-river-mada-a-case-study-of-akwanga-localgovernment-area-of-nasarawa-state-nigeria.pdf" title="Flood risk assessment of river Mada: A case study of Akwanga localgovernment area of Nasarawa state, Nigeria
flood-risk-assessment-of-river-mada-a-case-study-of-akwanga-localrngovernment-area-of-nasarawa-state-nigeria-14799
flood-risk-assessment-of-river-mada-a-case-study-of-akwanga-localgovernment-area-of-nasarawa-state-nigeria
