Synthesis, Characterization and Antimicrobial Activities of some Transition Metal Complexes of Biologically Active Asymmetrical Tetradentate Ligands
The solid complexes of Cu(II), Ni(II), Co(II), Mn(II) and Fe(III) with asymmetrical tetradentate Schiff bases derived from o-phenylenediamine (H2L1)/4-methyl o-phenylenediamine (H2L2), 3-Acetyl-6-methyl-pyran-2,4-dione (Dehydroacetic acid) and 2-hydroxy-1-naphthaldehyde have been synthesized and characterized by elemental analysis, conductometry, magnetic susceptibility, uv-visible, i.r, 1H-nmr. spectra, X-ray diffraction, thermal analysis, and screened for antimicrobial activity. The IR spectral data suggest that the ligand behaves as a dibasic tetadentate ligand with ONNO donar atoms sequence towards central metal ion. From the microanalytical data, the stoichiometry of the complexes has been found to be 1:1 (metal: ligand). The physico-chemical data suggests square planar geometry for Cu(II) and Ni(II) complexes and octahedral geometry for Co(II), Mn(II) and Fe(III) complexes respectively. The x-ray differaction data suggests orthorhombic crystal system for Cu(II) complex, monoclinic crystal system for Ni(II)and Fe(III). Thermal behaviour (TG/DTA) of the complexes was studied and kintic parameters were determined by Horowitz-Metzger and Coats-Redfern method. The ligand and their metal complexes were screened for antibacterial activity against Staphylococcus aureus and Escherichia coli and fungicidal activity against Aspergillus Niger and Trichoderma.
A. S. Munde, V. A. Shelke, S. M. Jadhav, A. S. Kirdant, S. R. Vaidya, S. G. Shankarwar, and T. K. Chondhekar
synthesis-characterization-and-antimicrobial-activities-of-some-transitionmetal-complexes-of-biologically-active-asymmetrical-tetr.pdf" title="Synthesis, Characterization and Antimicrobial Activities of some TransitionMetal Complexes of Biologically Active Asymmetrical Tetradentate Ligands
synthesis-characterization-and-antimicrobial-activities-of-some-transitionrnmetal-complexes-of-biologically-active-asymmetrical-tetradentate-ligands-15860
synthesis-characterization-and-antimicrobial-activities-of-some-transitionmetal-complexes-of-biologically-active-asymmetrical-tetr
