Bioremediation potential of individual and consortium Non-adapted fungal strains on Azo dye containing textile effluent
This study investigates the non-adapted individual and consortium fungal strains for the reduction of azo dyes containing textile effluent. About 4 predominant non-adapted fungal strains such as Aspergillus sp., Penicillium sp., Fusarium sp., Rhizopus sp., with potential dye degradation ability were isolated from different niche. It was used to develop consortium for bioremediation efficiency analysis on textile effluent. The Fusarium was not compatible in the consortium though it could give good individual dye reduction. On analyzing with the individual and consortium non-adapted fungal strains of the treatment trials, the consortium fungal strains are found to be the very effective bioremediation ability. The consortium reduced the color up to 74% and reduce other solids upto 50%. This study reveals the standardization of pH, retention time, organic load, incubation time and Inoculum concentration for the effective decolorization of the azo dye containing textile effluent. The GCMS analysis of the non-adapted fungi treated in pH-6, organic loading rate-100%, retention time- 5days, inoculum concentration-5% and incubation temperature-27°c and the treated samples were not found to have any toxic compounds. Hence, the consortium of non-adapted fungal strains were found to have good dye reduction ability than the individual non-adapted fungal strains.
V. Gopi, Akhilesh Upgade and N. Soundararajan
bioremediation-potential-of-individual-and-consortium-nonadaptedfungal-strains-on-azo-dye-containing-textile-effluent.pdf" title="Bioremediation potential of individual and consortium Non-adaptedfungal strains on Azo dye containing textile effluent
bioremediation-potential-of-individual-and-consortium-nonadaptedrnfungal-strains-on-azo-dye-containing-textile-effluent-15881
bioremediation-potential-of-individual-and-consortium-nonadaptedfungal-strains-on-azo-dye-containing-textile-effluent
