Study and designing of new chute plate for single minute exchange of die (SMED) in sheet metal industry on high speed presses
Today’s business growth is totally dependent on the productivity and the customer satisfaction through in-time delivery and services. This Paper addresses the application of lean manufacturing in sheet metal industry. The goal of this research is to investigate how to improve the productivity and in time delivery as expected by customers. In a sheet metal industry, there is always a big challenge for improvement in the productivity of the plant. KANSAL INDUSTRIES sheet metal industry manufacturing for automotive vehicles have faced the productivity problem from the last few years. Machine capacity utilization is a key goal in achieving minimum time consumption for setup change over time. Tool change over process is recognized as possible area for reducing the time consumption. The main objective of the present study is to identify the root causes of bottle necks operation and implement possible solution to the problems. Single minute exchange of die (SMED) method and quick die change (QDC) technology. Size of the Nut/Bolt &amp; Chute plate design was found as the major cause for high setup time. A standard chute plates was designed for rotor and stator chute with software solid work and designed some other relevant assembly component required for easy setting of chute. The SMED Technique has been improved by additional technology QDC and design modification implementation of chute plate was simultaneously applied. A Significant time savings have been achieved with minimum investment
Khushee Ram, Sanjeev Kumar and D. P. Singh
study-and-designing-of-new-chute-plate-for-single-minute-exchange-of-diesmed-in-sheet-metal-industry-on-high-speed-presses.pdf" title="Study and designing of new chute plate for single minute exchange of die(SMED) in sheet metal industry on high speed presses
study-and-designing-of-new-chute-plate-for-single-minute-exchange-of-diernsmed-in-sheet-metal-industry-on-high-speed-presses-13769
study-and-designing-of-new-chute-plate-for-single-minute-exchange-of-diesmed-in-sheet-metal-industry-on-high-speed-presses
