Recent advances in pharmacological potential of Syzygium cumini: A review
Syzygium cumini (Linn.) Skeels. (Myrtaceae) (Synonym. Eugenia jambolana), commonly known as Jamun or Black Plum is indigenous to India. The plant has traditionally been used for its rich nutrition and medicinal value. The current review focuses on the recent research investigations involving the studies on diverse pharmacological actions of Jamun. The electronic database search was performed in order to achieve this aim. Jamun plant has been reported to be enriched with an array of phytoconstituents like ellagic acid, glucoside, anthocyanins, kaempferol, isoquercetin, myrecetin and so on. The seeds which are mostly utilized for their medicinal value are said to contain an alkaloid- jambosine and glycoside-jambolin or antimellin which inhibit the conversion of starch to sugar. Different plant parts have been claimed to contain different constituents, due to which they possess an assorted pharmacological prospective. Jamun has been used for the treatment of diabetes since ages. Apart from this it has also shown its beneficial potential as anti-allergic, antibacterial, anticancer, anticlastogenic, anti-diarrhoeal, anti-fertility, anti-fungal, anti-hyperlipidemic, anti-hypertensive, antiinflammatory, anti-lieshmanial, anti-nociceptive, anti-oxidant, anti-viral, ascaricidal, cardioprotective, chemoprotective, diuretic, gastroprotective, hepatoprotective, hypothermic, neuropsychopharmacological and radioprotective agent. These actions and the lacunas in the specific areas have been discussed in this article. This will provide a platform for the future researchers especially in the less explored areas.
Deepti Katiyar, Vijender Singh and Mohd. Ali
recent-advances-in-pharmacological-potential-of-syzygium-cumini-a-review.pdf" title="Recent advances in pharmacological potential of Syzygium cumini: A review
recent-advances-in-pharmacological-potential-of-syzygium-cumini-a-review-17058
recent-advances-in-pharmacological-potential-of-syzygium-cumini-a-review
