The application of two dimensional model on oil spill movement in Khor ALZubair, north west, Arabian Gulf
The present work used a simulation model to track the movement and fate of oil pollutants, which takes into consideration all the factors of hydrographic and hydrological conditions. The experimental part includes; collect in the bathymetric and topographic data for the study area, measurements of the tides, climate variables, measurements of water velocities, field testing process for a synthetic oil spill and following-up the presence of slicks. The theoretical part simulated the experimental data using MIKE12 HD package for 26 days with the division of semi-dimensions Δx=200m and Δy=200m with time step Δt=80s. This yields to have a number of network j=322 and k=105 equivalent to (6762 km2). The matching between the field data and the calculated results was up to 90% approximately. The tidal ranges were 4.5m and 4m in Umm Qasr and Khor Al-Zubair, respectively. The speed of the currents during the ebb phase is greater than the speed of the flood in Umm Qasr and Khor Al-Zubair, reaching its greatest value of 1.85m/s at Khor Al-Zubair. By using MIKE12 SA it is concluded that the oil spill of the Fuel type has a significant impact on the marine environment for spot thickness (&gt;20mm) and the area of spread (28km2) and dwell time spot is farther from the simulations (&gt;10days). The model used in this study was successful in the study of hydraulic properties as well as the transport and fate of oil spills and leaks.
Samer A. R. Al-Taei, Abdul R. H. Subber and Faris J. M. Al-Imarah
the-application-of-two-dimensional-model-on-oil-spill-movement-in-khor-alzubairnorth-west-arabian-gulf.pdf" title="The application of two dimensional model on oil spill movement in Khor ALZubair,north west, Arabian Gulf
the-application-of-two-dimensional-model-on-oil-spill-movement-in-khor-alzubairrnnorth-west-arabian-gulf-16373
the-application-of-two-dimensional-model-on-oil-spill-movement-in-khor-alzubairnorth-west-arabian-gulf
