Influence of the use temperature on the Capacitance-Frequency measures of a Cu(In, Ga)Se2 thin film solar cell
In this article, our work concerns a Cu(In, Ga)Se2 thin film solar cell. We study the influence of the use temperature on the capacitance-frequency measures. This study is done on the scale of the use of the solar cells at ambient environment. This temperature being able to vary according to the environment, we use for our study the temperatures of 270K, 280K, 290K, 300K, 310K and 320K. The first stage of our work concerns a simulation using the SCAPS. The second concerns the utilization of the equations which govern the physical parameters which intervene in the heart even of the solar cell. The third phase concerns the work carried out with Matlab. The study of the variation of the capacitance according to the frequency showed us that the characteristics of the capacitive effects obtained according to the frequency are more affected for the highest use temperatures. Indeed for a temperature of 270K we obtain Cmin = 38.2nF.cm-2 and Cmax = 39.2nF.cm-2 whereas for a temperature of 320K we have Cmin = 35.5nF.cm-2 and Cmax = 40.4nF.cm-2. Then the exploitation of the variation of the phase of the impedance according to the logarithm of the impulse attested a capacitive behavior of the cell. These capacitive effects are optimal for the maximum values of log(ω). Then the profiles obtained with Nyquist plots once more showed the improvement of the electric parameters of the cell with the increase in the temperature. To finish the study of the variation of the impedance module according to the logarithm of the impulse allows us to notice that the impedance is affected by the temperature only for the lower impulses.
Alain K. Ehemba, Ibrahima Wade, Demba Diallo, Djimba Niane and Moustapha Dieng
influence-of-the-use-temperature-on-the-capacitancefrequency-measures-of-a-cuin-gase2-thin-film-solar-cell.pdf" title="Influence of the use temperature on the Capacitance-Frequency measures of a Cu(In, Ga)Se2 thin film solar cell
influence-of-the-use-temperature-on-the-capacitancefrequency-measures-of-a-cuin-gase2-thin-film-solar-cell-17095
influence-of-the-use-temperature-on-the-capacitancefrequency-measures-of-a-cuin-gase2-thin-film-solar-cell
