Influence of the use temperature on the Capacitance-Voltage measures and the external quantum efficiency of a Cu(In, Ga)Se2 thin film solar cell
In this work we are interested by the use parameters of the cell. The studied parameter is the temperature. We study its influence on the Capacitance-Voltage measures and the external quantum efficiency of the solar cell. The range of temperatures considered is about 270K to 320K with a step of 10K. Our study is based on three stages aiming at confirming the veracity of our results. The first stage of our work concerns the handling of the equations which govern the physical parameters which intervene in the heart of the solar cell. The second of our work concerns a simulation using the Solar Cell Capacitance Simulator (SCAPS).The third stage of our work concerns obtaining characteristics using Matlab. The study of the effect of the use temperature on the variation of the capacitance according to the tension shows that more the use temperature is significant more the cell capacitance is important. This capacitance is significant for tensions higher than 0.3eV. The analysis of the Mott-Schottky curves for temperatures of 270K to 320K enables us to note that the effect of the temperature on the Mott-Schottky curves is weakly noted and it appears slightly for the voltages of 0.6V to 0.7V by variations on the characteristics. As let us note, as using the study of the variation of the conductance according to the voltage, we see that for an optimal and maximal applied voltage of 0.8V one notes a conductance equal to 1.77×101 S.cm -2 for an use temperature of 270K and 9.78×101 S.cm -2 for an use temperature of 320K. The use temperature has a very weak effect on external quantum efficiency of the cell. For all the range of temperature considered we have a maximum efficiency of 95% for an incidental wavelength of 460nm and a broad beach of absorption.
Alain K. Ehemba, Mouhamadou Mamour Soce, Ibrahima Wade, Demba Diallo and Moustapha Dieng
influence-of-the-use-temperature-on-the-capacitancevoltage-measures-and-the-external-quantum-efficiency-of-a-cuin-gase2-thin-film.pdf" title="Influence of the use temperature on the Capacitance-Voltage measures and the external quantum efficiency of a Cu(In, Ga)Se2 thin film solar cell
influence-of-the-use-temperature-on-the-capacitancevoltage-measures-and-the-external-quantum-efficiency-of-a-cuin-gase2-thin-film-solar-cell-17098
influence-of-the-use-temperature-on-the-capacitancevoltage-measures-and-the-external-quantum-efficiency-of-a-cuin-gase2-thin-film
