Study some physiological characters, yield and yield component for five new rice varieties under different sowing dates
Field research was conducted for 2 year 2009 and 2010 to evaluation in between rice varieties (Oryza sativa L.) under different sowing dates. at Rice research and training center (RRTC) – Sakha, Kafr- El sheikh, governorate, Egypt. To study five new rice varieties, Sakha 106, Sakha 105, G.Z 7576, G.Z. 9057 and G.Z. 9362 under five sowing dates April 1st , April 10th April 20th , may 1st and may 10th . Seedling age at transplanting was 26 days from sowing and planting spacing 20X20 cm in between hills. All agricultural practices were applied as recommended for each cultivar. As split plot design and four replication were used, five sowing dates allocated in the main plots, and five rice varieties were allocated in sup-plots. Main results induced that sowing date at April 1st gave the highest value on number of days from sowing up to maximum tillering , panicle initiation and flowering dates. And also Rote length(cm), leaf area index , No. of tillers/hill at PI, Chlorophyll content at H.D, Number of tillers/M2 t maturity stage , Panicle length (cm), Number of grains/panicle ,1000- grains weight(g). and Grains yield /ha except light penetration it was the lowest value. While may 10th gave the lowest value for all Preview attributes. As Sakha surpassed other varieties under study to all previous attributes whoever G.Z. 9362 gave the lowest value.
Ali A. A. Abou Khalifa and I. M. El-Rewainy
study-some-physiological-characters-yield-and-yield-component-for-five-newrice-varieties-under-different-sowing-dates.pdf" title="Study some physiological characters, yield and yield component for five newrice varieties under different sowing dates
study-some-physiological-characters-yield-and-yield-component-for-five-newrnrice-varieties-under-different-sowing-dates-15902
study-some-physiological-characters-yield-and-yield-component-for-five-newrice-varieties-under-different-sowing-dates
